---
layout: post
title:  "Introduction to Machine Learning"
date:   2019-10-11 20:00:00 +0100
author: KryptoMouse
toc: true
categories: machine-learning
tags: [machine-learning]
---

This piece will provide an overview of the different groups of Machine Learning
algorithms.

The term Machine Learning (ML) was coined by [Arthur Samuel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arthur_Samuel) in 1959.  
[Tom M. Mitchell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tom_M._Mitchell) was widely quoted for his definition of ML:

> A computer program is said to learn from experience *E* with respect to some class of tasks *T* and performance measure *P* if its performance at tasks in *T*, as measured by *P*, improves with experience *E*.”

Hence, algorithms solving Machine Learning tasks are often called *learning* algorithms.

## Supervised and Unsupervised Learning
Machine Learning Tasks are categorized into two main groups.

### Supervised Learning
Algorithms solving supervised learning tasks are mathematical models built from a set of  *training data*.
The training data contains the input and the desired output label.
(e.g. an email is the input and the result label is ‘spam’ / ‘no-spam’)

Supervised Learning can further be divided into two classes of algorithms:

- Regression Algorithms  
Where the output can take on any value within a continuous range.
(e.g. an algorithm that predicts tomorrow's temperature)

- Classification Algorithms  
Where the output can take on a limited set of values (or a discrete set of values, if you will).
(e.g. an algorithm that predicts whether or not an email should categorized as spam)

### Unsupervised Learning
Algorithms solving unsupervised learning tasks are trained on data without knowing the actual output label.
(e.g. grouping or clustering of data points)


## Active Learning
Algorithms solving this kind of tasks not only uses a training but interactively queries the algorithm user in order to get output labels of new data points.
Since the learner chooses the data points for labeling the learning rate can become faster than normal [Supervised Learning](#supervised-learning)

## Reinforcement Learning
This kind of learning differs from [Supervised Learning](#supervised-learning) since no *training set* is needed.
Also, if the learning algorithm fails to predict correctly, it needs no explicit correction.

The algorithm is tailored for software agents which can take actions in a given environment and achieve a reward.
The goal of the software agent is then to maximize the cumulative reward by taking actions accordingly.
(e.g. a self-driving car is a software agent which can be get a feedback (reward) on whether an action was good or bad)

## Deep Learning
Currently there is a lot of hype around Deep Learning. Deep Learning algorithms can be both
supervised and unsupervised. They are a sub-set of Machine Learning algorithms and uses
a method based on Artificial Neural Networks (ANN).

### Artificial Neural Networks (ANN)
ANN are computing systems inspired by the neural networks that constitute our brains.
Our brain processes information by neurons communicating using signals.
Similarly, artificial neurons are the smallest unit of ANNs getting input signals
and sending signals downstream, through layers of other neurons.
The output layer will decide the output of the algorithm solving the Machine Learning task.

#### Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN)
The simplest type of AAN is the Feedforward Neural Network where the information runs
in one direction through the nodes in each layer.
Recurrent Neural Networks do not have this restriction and therefore can use internal state
to process information as it repeatedly passes through.

### Deep Neural Networks (DNN)
Deep neural networks are basically ANNs with multiple layers between input and output layer.

#### Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN)
The Machine Learning tasks tackled with CNN is often related to analyzing visual imagery.
They are built using [Multilayer Perceptrons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multilayer_perceptron) (MLPs)
which is basically a [DNN](#deep-neural-networks-dnn) where every neuron in one layer is connected to all neurons in the 'down-stream' layer.
As the name suggests convolutional layers convolve the input using multiplication
or dot products in order to make the task (e.g. processing high resolution images) computational feasible.

## Happy (Machine) Learning
While researching the different branches of Machine Learning I came across [another (much more complete)
post](https://machinelearningmastery.com/a-tour-of-machine-learning-algorithms/)
which groups Machine Learning algorithms by similarity as well.
The space of learning algorithms is vast both in terms of complexity and growth.
Hope this helps provide a mental picture of the different algorithms and how they relate to each other.
